### 1. Code splitting
We see R bundler parcel bundles all js code into one js file this means if application is too huge then only one js file will contain all the application code logic which eventually will grow in size so long that loading of application for the first time will start taking considerable waiting time for clients. This is difficult to accept because one client comes into homepage we dont want to preload about us or contact us page and its related functionality so loading those at the first and increasing waiting time for customer looks like we have scope of improvement.

This approach has so many names including: 
* Chuncking
* code splitting
* dynamic bundling
* lazy loading
* dynamic import
* on-demand loading

We have option to break our code into multip js files in a way that each component can be in one js file or all component can be in 1 js file. There we have to find out a balance. There we go with a logic where a bundle or a file Should have enough code to support a feature.

### How to split:
React gives us powerful APIs
1. lazy: a function given by React-DOM where you can mention which file to import lazily, when needed.
2. Suspense: a component which will render intermediately while the loading is progressing.
With Help of these two functionality react gives the power to choose and render some component whenever it is needed. With this we can enjoy the benefit of lazy loading so that our app will be faster to load the component which users want to see right now and leave the components which might not require for now.

```js
import { React, lazy, Suspense } from "react";
...
// This will load the file when Grocery component is called
const Grocery = lazy(() => import("./components/Grocery"));

...
const route = createBrowserRouter([
  {
    path: "/",
    element: <AppLayout />,
    children: [
      ...
      {
        path: "/grocery",
        // Suspense accepts a JSX which will render temporarily till Grocery is loading
        element: (
          <Suspense fallback=<h1>Loading...</h1>>
            <Grocery />
          </Suspense>
        ),
      },
    ...
    ],
    errorElement: <Error />,
  },
]);

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));
root.render(<RouterProvider router={route} />);
```
With this coat you can see in this directory that a new js file for grocery will be created separately. This file will only be loaded when we click or go to grocery url that we can notice in network tab.

So the lazy function text directory address as input and returns JSX As output. That output usually is a component for us.
Now let's understand one scenario where we click on grocery requesting to download the grocery js file but it takes some time to download that file and then start rendering. Within that time react have nothing to render but to wait for something. Meanwhile if you cannot provide it something to do it will suspend rendering the upcoming component. At that time suspense comes handy to provide the placeholder where we can mention the component to render temporarily while the main component is being loaded. If you don't provide suspense or some other alternative react will throw an error.
One more point to note is that the lazy component will load only once into browser and then it will persist so if you move across different tabs then it doesn't require to load that component again because it will be available Already to use.